---
title: 'Voices Of The Void'
pubDate: 2023-09-17
description: 'The first blog post I make on my website.'
author: 'Cane Aubright'
tags: ["gaming", "blogging", "Voices of the Void"]
---

# Voices of the Void Is A Horror Game I Didn't Think Was Possible

Published: 2023-09-17

Over the Summer and a bit of March I tried out Voices of the Void, a horror game with some fairly rapid growing interest. It wasn't until around the start of September when I would actually finish the build of the game I was on, more on that later, but when I did I felt an intense desire to share this gem I managed to find. It was such a unique horror experience the likes I've never played before.

## Technically, _I_ didn't find it though.

I actually found VotV from a relatively small YouTuber I follow. [Spazmatic Banana](https://www.youtube.com/@SpazmaticBanana) made a few videos on it back in January until March. I saw the first episode and got super invested, downloaded the latest version game myself at the time and tried streaming it in a Discord call with some buddies. To keep it short, things didn't pan out too well in my playthrough, and I eventually just gave up and watched Spaz's full playthrough of the game, but I still had interest in trying to beat it myself.

Later in July after a very pleasant Los Angeles trip for Anime Expo, I saw on Twitter (Shamefully X) that VotV received a substantial update. One that actually got Spaz to replay the game in full because of the sheer amount of content added. It also got me to play too, giving it another shot and hopefully not losing motivation 1/3 of the way through.

## Thus began my Voices of the Void 0.6.1a playthrough

... And the section where I actually explain how the game works. Voices of the Void is a horror game developed by MrDrNose and inspired by Signal Simulator, another game of the same format. You play as Dr. Kel, a scientist sent to a remote station in some Swiss forest to scan for and process signals you find from satelites and other various objects out in space, which you load onto hard drives and send back to wherever your superiors are via package to get your juicy daily pay.

The game starts out dreadfully slow, not even putting you at your base. After actually walking over from the outdoors, you'll have to familiarize yourself with the layout of the place and—most importantly—the computers you'll spend a good chunk of your time at. At your desk there's a couple machines used to:

- Find a signal
- Tune your satellites to download said signal
- Store downloaded signals on your base computers for playback and transfer to your hard drives
- And process signals for better clarity

There's also an old-school PC on your desk to buy various upgrades and tools as well as check your email inbox for instructions, and a text terminal to perform various actions and activate some silly easter eggs, more on that also later.

## So what does your daily grind include?

Every day, you receive an email telling you an amount of signals with varying quality you'll have to send over alongside a report on specific satellites spread out from your base all around the forest. You'll be to send over a written report of the always changing hash codes from satellites by driving over to them outside and grabbing it from their associated terminal, and storing the signals you're told to download and process in hard drives. Stuff all that into a box with your report and send it via drone back to HQ. Do that for about 35 days or so, and you complete the game.

Outside of that you'll have to keep your base and all the satellites in good, working condition. That means checking if they're are properly calibrated, repairing specific servers if they're malfunctioning, and servicing the two generators on the far outskirts to make sure they don't break down on you at an inopportune time. You also want to make sure you don't go hungry or pass out from exhaustion either, a hunger and stamina gauge occupy the lower corner of your screen, always ticking down over time. Get too hungry and you can't do anything, get too sleepy and you'll pass out no matter where you are or what you're doing.

## "Doesn't sound very spooky to me."

You're probably thinking that at this point, and you're right. It isn't all too scary or tense by itself, honestly sounds a little boring and can get outright exhausting with some of the game's quirks like that damn ATV you use to get around or failing to submit the written form properly because of an extra spacebar press at the end of the hash codes. The part that makes it scary is right at the point these feelings start creeping up, and other your other senses start to go off for some reason.

Anxiety is the name of the game here. As the days go by and you get more complacent, events start happening that catch you right when things feel a little _too_ comfortable. You're gonna start hearing bumps in the night, you're gonna notice something new you don't recognize out there. Something's gonna move from where you left it. Maybe you hear something try to get in. Maybe something actually _got_ in. Perhaps you want to take a break, stop for the bathroom or finish the play session for the day, but for some reason...

## You can't escape, literally.

The source engine "cannot use" sound effect has never been so chilling. If any event happens at all, no matter how harmless or how scary, you _need_ to get through it. Saving and pausing are disabled until you get out there and figure out what happened or whatever looming threat passes. Once the event ends, these functions return, but you've gotta brace yourself for what getting them back may entail.

This alone is possibly the most intense aspect of the game and I absolutely adore it. I don't think any game I've played has ever ripped away a feature to make you face your fears, or Alt+F4 in an extreme panic, like Voices of the Void has. By the later days, I was constantly on edge, freaking out over the slightest _tap_ I hear anywhere. I'm constantly looking in all directions, jumping in fear from anything that isn't quite like how it was when I got there. And what makes this even more impressive is...

## At the same time I have Maxwell the cat in my office, while The Penis (Eek!) played from another cat I found.

I cannot mention Voices of the Void without also the plentiful memes and easter eggs in the game. Almost all of them are ones you activate yourself or very far off the beaten path, but they almost all have some degree of silliness to them. Some are actual objects that spawn around the map, or maybe they're little songs or ASCII art that play from your terminal, maybe you bought the vargshroom that says Vinesauce Joel quotes or the Moth plush so powerful it shook the very Earth it walked. VotV is full of more light-hearted and humorous bits to either help balance things out or turn what _was_ a scary situation before on its head into a goofy one with laughs to be had.

In a game like this, I would imagine the inclusions of silly easter eggs and memes a total moodbreaker, but to my surprise I actually still had moments that genuinely made me scared. All easter eggs have just enough of a presence to not take you away from an event if one suddenly took place. I actually had a few moments streaming the game to friends where I said "There's no way I could get scared" with all the dumb knick-knacks I'd procured over my playthrough. Shortly after, an event would happen ripping me away from that and right back to being _terrified_.

## And I would love to show you more of my findings in detail, buuuut...

I'd rather you played the game yourself. Honestly I think I've said too much. Voices of the Void has an [itch.io](https://mrdrnose.itch.io/votv) page where you can download the latest build of the demo for free, but if you want to support MrDrNose monetarily you can also leave a tip when hitting the download button or pledging to his [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/eternitydev). The game's currently still in development too, actually got an update the weekend of me starting this website and writing this post. I don't know when the full game will come out, but when it does I am most definitely picking it up ASAP to experience what new horrors and goofs there are to greet me on the job.

<a href="/blog/">Back to blogs</a>
